## How to add new rooms to the map

As noted in the room file format doc (see link below), a "room" in the context of Rogue Cloud does not necessarily need to be a room (it is a bit of a misnomer) but rather, it corresponds to a cookie cutter structure (a grid of tiles) that can be stamped onto the map at any map coordinate.

**How the Rogue Cloud game map is created**:
1) Rooms are defined in `rooms.txt`
2) Rooms are mapped to specific RGB colours in the rooms mapping file, `map-new-mappings.txt`.
3) Where to place those rooms is defined in the `map-new.png` file, with the RGB colours from step 2 indicating where to place rooms on the map.
4) A CLI tool converts the `map-new.png` file, and the room mappings file, into a fully rendered map `map-new.txt`, which is what the game server reads on startup.

The Rogue Cloud map is defined in `(path to git repository root)/RogueCloudServer/WebContent/universe/map-new.txt`. This file is automatically generated by the map generation tools included with Rogue Cloud. This file should not be edited directly; instead you should follow the process below to modify and generate it.

**Follow these steps**:

### 1) Git clone the repository and run the following commands

```
git clone https://github.com/microclimate-dev2ops/rogue-cloud
cd rogue-cloud
mvn clean package
```

### 2) Create a new room in rooms.txt

- The `rooms.txt` file can be found in `(path to git repository root)/RogueCloudServer/WebContent/universe/rooms.txt`

The format of the rooms.txt is described here: https://github.com/microclimate-dev2ops/rogue-cloud/blob/master/docs/RogueCloudRoomsFileFormat.md

### 3) Once you have created a room, add it to the room mappings file.

Open the `map-new-mappings.txt` file in the same directory as above.
Each line in this file assigns a room to letter and a colour. 

Here is an example of a mapping: 
- `g 	a0a0a0		Graveyard`
- eg: `(letter) 	(colour in hex)  	(room name)`

The `room name` should match the room name that you specified in the `rooms.txt` file. The colour and letter should be unique, and can be anything, as long as no other lines use those same values. 

### 4) Now you need to place that room at various coordinates on the world map.

The position that  each room is displayed on the map, is determined by the `map-new.png` file. 

Each colour on the map (corresponding to colours listed in the `map-new-mappings.txt` file) indicates the specific coordinate to display the room with that colour. So for example, if there is a rectangle whose top left corner is at position (100, 200) in the `.png` file, and the colour of the rectangle is `a0a0a0` (24-bit hex colour), then a Graveyard will be drawn to the map txt file at that coordinate.

**Recommendation**: While not technically necessary, I highly suggest that when you are adding rooms to the map, that you make the coloured rectangle correspond to the size of the room. 
- For example, if your room is 10x5 (WxH), then create an empty rectangle (ie non-filled rectangle) that is 10x5 at your desired location in the PNG

### 5) Render your changes to see how they look:

- Run StandaloneWorldRender to see the result
  - `cd (path to your git install)/RogueCloudUtilitiesCLI/target`
  - `java -jar RogueCloudUtilitiesCLI-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar (path to git repository root)/RogueCloudServer/WebContent/universe "x coord" "y coord" "width" "height"`
  - Example: `java -jar RogueCloudUtilitiesCLI-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar C:\Rogue-Cloud\Git\RogueCloudServer\WebContent\universe\ 0 0 100 100`
  - See the generated image file: `(path to git repository root)/RogueCloudServer/WebContent/universe/preview.png`
